# Lewis-Portfolio
This is my public portfolio for the Telling Stories With Data Class at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU).
# About me
I am Alieyyah J. Lewis (she/her/hers), and I am a second-year graduate student studying Public Policy and Management on the Washington, D.C. track at Carnegie Mellon University. The track is a  highly selective program that integrates graduate coursework in public policy, management, technology, and analytics with a two-semester fellowship based in Washington, D.C., during the second year of study. I am currently serving as a Policy Fellow for DC Appleseed Law and Justice Center. Upon completing my degree in May 2021, I plan to pursue a career in education policy and advocacy within Federal Education Agencies, State Education Agencies, or Local Education Agencies. 
# What I hope to learn
Due to my previous experiences as an educator and as an alumna of Teach For America (TFA), I have worked with my students, families, administrators, community partners, and TFA to close the achievement gap. I  believe advocacy is the first step to eliminate injustice with the support of data.  I hope and to intertwine both disciplines of public policy and data analysis to ensure all students are receiving an equitable education. Through this course, I am looking forward to developing strong data visualization skills to compliment my ability to analyze data to ensure policymakers and stakeholders understand the compelling stories of educational inequities across the United States.

# Portfolio
<iframe src="https://data.oecd.org/chart/65Jh" width="860" height="645" style="border: 0" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" allowfullscreen="true"><a href="https://data.oecd.org/chart/65Jh" target="_blank">OECD Chart: General government debt, Total, % of GDP, Annual, 2019</a></iframe>

# Government Finances
The data visualization below analyzes 35 countries' debt-to-GDP ratios to measure the percentage of gross debt (liabilities) between 1995 and 2019. The 24-year analysis of debt-to-GDP ratios allows for the measurement of government financial sustainability or lack of sustainability over time.  
<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/3757302" data-url="https://flo.uri.sh/visualisation/3757302/embed" aria-label=""><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>          

<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/3758853" data-url="https://flo.uri.sh/visualisation/3758853/embed" aria-label=""><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>
<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/3758683" data-url="https://flo.uri.sh/visualisation/3758683/embed" aria-label=""><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>

#Global Governments Debt Analysis per Year: Gridlines v. Area Chart v. Pie Chart with Row Filter
As previously mentioned, the Global Governments Debt Analysis per Year's objective is to depict the financial story of 35 countries' debt-to-GDP ratios to measure liabilities over 24 years (1995-2019). During that period, governments accumulate debt such as loans, insurances, pensions, and accounts payable. When a government's expenses exceed its revenue, then the government will experience an economic deficit. Using the Gridline graph establishes the opportunity to compare all 35 countries' debt-to-GDP ratios. The Gridlines also depicts the trend of each of the countries' government liabilities over the 24 years.  For example, Japan began with a debt-to-GDP ratio of 94.74 in 1995. Throughout the 24 years, Japan's debt-to-GDP ratio increased to 238.73 in 2018. Other trends, such as decreased debt-to-ratio or a steady-state debt-to-GDP ratio, are visually depicted through the gridlines chart. 

An area chart is also an effet data visualization. To further enhance the analysis or story of debt-to-GDP ratio increasing, decreasing, or remain constant over the 24 years. The gridline is excellent for depicting continuous data, but the area chart allows the audience to depict change over time with the shading in the data area. Referring back to the Japan example, with the area chart, one can determine that the government's liabilities have increased over time, without hovering over the graph to seek the specific value for the debt-to-GDP ratio. 

Finally, I was intrigued to analyze a pie chart's effectiveness to depict the debt-to-GDP ratio change over time.   With the pie chart presented above, one can decipher the debt-to-GDP ratio change as the values are listed in the part-to-whole. The pie chart lacks the clarity of the trend of time that the area chart or the gridline chart can provide. Due to various use of colors and slices, the pie chart does allow the audience to visually analyze each year clearly and concisely as each part-to-whole represents a year of the 24-year analysis. 
